Should I go gluten-free?
Unless you suffer from celiac disease or gluten sensitivity, there is no reason to be on a gluten-free diet. Some symptoms of celiac disease or gluten sensitivity are diarrhea, unexpected weight loss, vomiting, anemia, abdominal pain and distention, fatigue, joint pain, foggy mind, and tingling of the extremities. If you are continually suffering from some or all of these symptoms, consult your doctor to get a proper diagnosis. Once celiac disease has been ruled out, you can try the gluten-free diet for a while and see if you feel better. You may. Or you may not. A gluten-free diet will not make you lose weight and is not necessarily healthier. A gluten free cookie is still a cookie.

Is a vegetarian diet best?
Yes, no, maybe, most likely! Long story short, processed meats are proven carcinogens and people who are vegetarians tend to eat more fruit and vegetables, which we all need and which most of us lack. But a Pepsi and French fries diet is not a good diet even if vegetarian.  

Is vegetarian (or keto or . . . ) the best way to eat?
In any given class, the subject may be “keto” or “the Mediterranean diet” or “vegetarian,” and the answer is always the same: There’s not one best way to eat. We are all different, and it would be impossible to choose one plan that would be right for everyone. The best plan for you is the one that meets your medical and nutritional needs, while also ­being affordable, accessible, ­enjoyable and something you can stick with for the long term. Sometimes that may not be clear, but seeing a dietitian can help you figure it out.

Is sugar (or salt or fat) the biggest problem in our diets?
No single nutrient or ingredient is the cause of poor diets. We live in an environment where highly palatable and cheap food is available everywhere. Pizza, chips, pastries and soda are ­dietary staples, and the average American gets almost 60 percent of their daily calories from such ultra-processed foods. What’s most problematic is eating too much of those ultra-processed foods and not enough whole foods (such as vegetables, fish and nuts) over a long period of time.

Do microwaves cause cancer?
Many people have asked me about the safety of using these appliances to warm up last night’s lasagna. They worry when they hear the word ­“radiation.” Although radiation may be linked to damaged cells and an increased cancer risk when it’s high frequency and there’s prolonged exposure (think gamma rays and some ultraviolet radiation), microwaves use ­low-frequency radiation for short periods. Microwaves only operate when the oven is on and the door is shut — so they are not constantly emitting radiation. Well-functioning microwaves are deemed safe by the World Health Organization and the World Cancer Research Fund, as long as the door closes ­properly and the microwave has no dents or leaks.

Do I need to drink eight glasses of water daily?
Drinking water is vital because we lose fluid every day through sweating, urinating and breathing. But how can it be possible that each one of us — regardless of age, gender, size, activity level and diet — requires eight glasses per day? The answer: It’s not. That number comes from a 1945 U.S. Food and Nutrition Board recommendation, which was not based on research. And it didn’t recommend drinking only water for hydration; it noted that fluid can come from other beverages and food, too. So, there’s no scientific basis for the “eight glasses” number. In most cases, thirst is your best ­indicator that you need a drink. If that sense is compromised, keep beverages visible so you remember to sip throughout the day. ­Exactly how much to drink is not a static number for everyone.

Is food labeled "organic" more nutritious?
Organic refers to a method of farming, but it’s not a health claim. An organic logo does not tell you anything about the calories, fat, salt, sugar or vitamin content of food. A cake made with organic white flour, organic sugar and organic butter is still cake — it’s not suddenly “healthy cake” because the ingredients were grown using organic farming methods. Nutritious foods — whether conventionally or ­organically grown — are those that provide the body with fiber, vitamins, minerals, protein and other key nutrients.


Q:People with a body mass index (BMI) value of what or more are considered obese?
A:30. BMI values between 18.5 and 24.9 are considered to be a “normal” or “healthy” weight. BMI values between 25 and 29.9 are considered “overweight,” while BMI values of 30 and above are considered “obese.” BMIs above 25 are unhealthy and have been shown to increase the risk of certain chronic diseases. BMIs under 18.5 are considered “underweight.”


Q:From which foods can we get carbohydrates?
A:Milk products and fruits, whole grain breads and cereals, table sugar, starchy vegetables, and legumes. Carbohydrates are called "simple" or "complex," depending on how fast your body digests and absorbs the sugar. You get simple carbohydrates from fruits, milk products, and table sugar. Complex carbohydrates include whole grain breads and cereals, starchy vegetables, and legumes. Complex carbohydrates and some simple carbohydrates provide vitamins, minerals, and fiber. Products made with refined sugar provide little nutrition. It is wise to limit these products.

Q:A good rule of thumb is to drink 10-12 glasses of water per day. True or False?
A:False. There is no evidence to show that drinking 10-12 glasses of water is necessary. Generally, nutritionists recommend we follow the “8x8” rule, which is to drink eight 8-ounce glasses of water per day. Drinking more water does indeed boost metabolism - especially if your glass is icy cold. Your body must work to warm the water up, burning a few extra calories in the process. As for other benefits of water, 85% of your brain tissue is water, which means that if you're dehydrated, both your body and your mind will be stressed.


Are low carb diets safe?
No. And they don’t work because you can’t stay on them forever (who would want to never eat apples/strawberries/bread ever again?) Low carb diets make you gain weight in the long run. I have many clients post keto in my office who gained all the weight back. More long term studies need to be conducted to say that they are safe. Apples, brown rice and chickpeas are not the reasons why so many people are having weight issues. Donuts and litre-sized Pepsi are. Besides, eating so much animal protein is really unhealthy in the long run (heart disease, cancer, strokes etc.) and unsustainable.  We can’t keep doing this to our planet!





